When listening for keyboard events we often need to
check which key that pressed by a user on the keyboard
to determine which code to be executed. Vue js allows
us to add a modifier to the v-on directive specifically
for the keyboard
event. Because this modifier is specifically for
keyboard event it is better known as key modifier.
Let's open the event handling four dot html.
If we look at this application
It's similar to the previous one.
The difference here is that at the bottom
there is only one input without a button.
Later when we type something and then press the
enter key it will immediately be added to the list.
or when we press the escape key, what
we type in the text box will be reset.
Let's switch over to our editor then open
the event handling four dot html file.
If you see the text box is in a div element
so to make it able to add something
that we type in the text box to the list
when a user press enter
we can define here
v-on colon key up
then we add a modifier 13 which is the key code of the enter key.
Then we call the handle submit method.
So if you want to handle keyboard event of certain keys
besides the enter key then you need to know the
key code. To do that
You can go to key code dot info
in here you can find out the key code of
any key that you press on the keyboard.
Beside that
vue js also provides an alias for the enter key so he
can change this 13 to enter. Here in handle submit
method
we can assure that the user has type something before actually add it to the list. If this framework trim or if the framework name
entered in the text box is not empty then move this lines.
inside the if
let's save and switch back over to our browser.
Try to enter something
we'll see new framework on the list when we press the enter key.
Now let's add another modifier to the input to do something else
when we press the escape key.
Let's go back to our editor
and inside
the input we can add another v-on keyup
and then specify dot esc modifier that is modifier for escape key.
Then let's call clear text method for
example. In this methods property
let's define the clear text method
and inside this method let's clear the framework property's value.
Now if you tried to type something in the text box
and then press the escape key everything
inside the text box will be reset immediately.
Now beside enter and esc alias modifier vue js
also provides other aliases such as tab, delete
capture both delete and bask space
keys, space, up, down, left and right.
Alright
that's about event handling in vue js.